New York City (NYC), home to millions of people, faces the challenge that many big cities encounter. Overpopulation and an inflated housing market makes it difficult for many people to afford shelter. Because housing is so expensive, NYC experiences one of the highest rates of homelessness in the country, ranking at number 8. Analyzing these datasets will allow us to see whether there has been an increase in homelessness population in different boroughs and if there is a positive correlation with the number of encampment complaints being made. If the homelessness population correlates to an increase in encampment complaints, we hope to communicate the need for more funding for the Department of Homeless Services (DHS) to take action in providing resources for people facing homelessness or to allocate resources to neighborhoods that seem to be more affected than others.
This analysis has significant implications in the current political climate. Mayor Eric Adams has recently issued an “encampment sweep” which involved wiping out dozens, if not hundreds of homeless encampment set-ups. The New York post mentioned a quote from Jacquelyn Simone, the policy director for the Coalition for the Homeless who said , “Policing and sweeps are harmful, counterproductive strategies that can actually push unsheltered homeless people further away from services.” The Mayor proposed a $171 million investment for homeless services in 2022 which would include funding for 1,400 shelter beds. Homeless encampment is a controversial issue because it directly affects how safe citizens feel in their own neighborhoods. 
 Examining this data will allow us to learn whether homeless shelters utilization is correlated with the rate at which encampment complaints are being made. 
